<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Once Is Enough</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<article id="once-is-enough" epub:type="se:short-story">
			<h2>Once Is Enough</h2>
			<p>Through the eager glitter of Fifth Avenue, Grace Waldron drove to her home. The landau, the liveries, the cherry-bays caught the eye, deflecting it to her. In the transverse stream of traps and motors, women smiled and nodded. On the sidewalk, men turned and stared.</p>
			<p>Born a Varick, which is something; the wife of Christopher Waldron, which is something more; currently quoted “among those present”; young, rich, beautiful, intelligent⁠—and, for good measure, not too intelligent⁠—in her radiant landau she represented that which is everywhere phenomenal, an absolutely happy woman. The spiderous Fates who sit and spin are on the watch for such as she.</p>
			<p>At the Amsterdams that afternoon, she had had with her Louie May, a young Philadelphian who, since they left Newport, had been stopping at her house. But, during the reception, in the sea of millinery that filled the rooms, the girl had been engulfed. Momentarily she had caught a glimpse of her, stranded at a gold and Sèvres heaped buffet and talking there with Nicholas Brevort⁠—an old beau of her own⁠—then, in the rising tides, she had been swept away. Vainly, for awhile, Grace had looked until, concluding that the girl would follow unless she had already preceded her, she had driven off alone.</p>
			<p>That evening, Brevort was to dine with them and afterward they were all to go on to the opera, of which it was the opening night. It was yet early, barely five. In spite of the buffet at the Amsterdams, Grace had had nothing and, being healthy, as a beautiful woman must be, she felt she would like some tea, and rather hoped that on reaching home her husband would be in to have it with her.</p>
			<p>Her marriage had been a love match. Christopher Waldron enjoyed the reputation of being the best dressed man in town, a reputation, which while perhaps formidable, is perhaps not much to boast of. But Waldron had other qualities. Behind an appearance politely peremptory, that air of being accustomed to instant obedience, he had a manner rarely seductive; the charm which certain New Yorkers used to have and which has gone with old New York. To Grace Varick, imbued by her people with the gentle traditions of gentler days, that charm was myrrh and cassia. Delightedly she had succumbed to it. Since then on her bed of roses not once had she found the crumpled leaf.</p>
			<p>Now, as the radiant landau swung along the glittering street, she thought of what she would put on that evening and wondered what Louie would wear. The evening previous the girl had managed to present an appearance of such slim nakedness, that while, in view of that demon, the Mode, there was nothing you could put your finger on⁠—metaphorically, that is⁠—otherwise there was place and to spare. But that was the fault of Fashion. Louie was as nice a girl as ever lived. A bit too incandescently pretty perhaps, but that was not her fault either. On the morrow she was to return to Philadelphia. It could not be helped, though Chris had protested. He liked the girl, and what he liked was, well, <i>hors concours</i>. Nick Brevort probably also liked her. Yet one never knew. Concerning the girl he had been mum. But he was always that way. Had he been less non-committal, then, before the myrrh and cassia came, Grace might have been Mrs. Nick.</p>
			<p>But now the landau, swinging into a side street, stopped. An automaton, suddenly alive, sprang from the box, bounded like a chamois up the steps, touched the bell, touched his hat, and Grace was in her home⁠—one less spectacular than the Amsterdams, but almost as spacious and perhaps in better taste.</p>
			<p>Abandoning her wraps to a footman, she entered a suite of rooms, at the end of which was a room much smaller than the others, consequently more intimate and in which, for that reason, she occasionally had tea. As though to accentuate its privacy, before the entrance draperies hung.</p>
			<p>Lifting a portière, she was about to enter, when, with an intake of the breath, she dropped it and moved back.</p>
			<p>It is impossible, she told herself. After the manner of those whom the incredible confronts and to whom it always seems unreal, she found but that. It is impossible, she repeated. To assure herself, she was about to raise the portière again when, intuitively, she desisted. Unbelievable as truth sometimes is, she had seen it. To shut it out, she closed her eyes, but, behind the lids, photographed on encephalic films, there they stood, Chris and Louie, his arms about her, in the attitude of a man to whom a girl has yielded, her mouth raised to his.</p>
			<p>There is no mistaking that, and Grace misunderstood it so little that now, the sense of unreality gone, one of her selves⁠—the least known to her, the wholly primitive, the animal that is in us all⁠—was inciting her to tear the curtains aside, to rush in, to upbraid and denounce. But the relapse passed as rapidly as it had come. Another condition succeeded it. She felt sick at her stomach. With an effort she dominated that. Yet the effort, exerted on nerves already overstrung, created still another condition. She wanted to get away and hide.</p>
			<p>To get anywhere she had to cross the hall, and there there were servants. Conscious of that, galvanised, too, by the instinct of form which enables a woman of the world to conceal any emotion, at once, with head erect, she went out. She ascended the stair, entered her bedroom, locked the door, and at last, securely alone, the instinct of form fell by, another, one more human, asserted itself, tears came, slowly at first, then torrentially.</p>
			<p>It was not anger now that she felt, mere wretchedness, the despair which those only know who suddenly find themselves forsaken. Still she wept. Presently, ceasing to be a mere bag of pain and impulse, she re-became the normal woman.</p>
			<p>In the first paroxysm she had thrown herself on her bed. Now, the feminine prompting, she stood up, looked in the mirror. The woman behind the cherry-bays, the beauty at whom men had turned and stared, where was she? Her eyes were bloodshot, the lids swollen, the face lined. That was no way to enter into a campaign, she told herself, for, as she had already decided, a campaign there must be.</p>
			<p>She rang for her women. An hour later, bathed, massaged, dressed, she planned it.</p>
			<p>But, already on the floor below, a counter plot had been organized. Unknown to Grace, Louie through half-closed eyes had seen her. At the sight, wholly momentary, those half-closed eyes had dilated. The girl tore herself from Waldron, indicated the curtains and beneath her breath, less with her voice than with her lips, threw it at him.</p>
			<p>“Grace!”</p>
			<p>That was all, but it was enough. Waldron straightened, turned, motioned at Louie to seat herself and took up a paper. But his eyes were on the curtains. A minute, another, yet another and still no movement, no sound, nothing.</p>
			<p>He rustled the paper. “Aïda! I have supped on Aïda. Let’s have some tea.”</p>
			<p>In speaking he went to the curtains, parted them. Beyond the rooms stretched ornate and vacant.</p>
			<p>He turned to the girl. “You were dreaming.”</p>
			<p>“Dreaming!” she repeated. She had left her seat. At the moment she hated him as only a girl can hate a man who has got her in a scrape. If this thing became known, socially she was dished. “Dreaming! I saw her!”</p>
			<p>“I’ll ask,” said Waldron. He passed through the curtains. When he came back he nodded.</p>
			<p>At the nod, she bridled. “You see I was right.”</p>
			<p>Waldron looked at her. She was abominably pretty, but she was not worth it.</p>
			<p>“We’ll have to get to work,” he announced.</p>
			<p>“To work! At what?”</p>
			<p>“At getting you out of this.”</p>
			<p>“And yourself, too.”</p>
			<p>“I was thinking of Grace.”</p>
			<p>“What do you suppose she will do?”</p>
			<p>“To you? Nothing. Grace is a gentlewoman.</p>
			<p>“Well, then?”</p>
			<p>But Waldron now was looking at the ceiling, from it he looked at the floor. Presently he approached the girl, and to make sure that no one but she should hear, he whispered.</p>
			<p>At once the coral of her mouth contracted. Usually her voice was pitched in sol bémol, the tone of it caressed the ear, stirred the pulse. Now, when he had done and she answered, it grated.</p>
			<p>“I won’t.”</p>
			<p>Waldron’s eyes narrowed. “I am sorry, but we will have to face the music.”</p>
			<p>She moved back. “Not to that tune then. Old, fat and, what’s worse, a pauper! I never heard anything so ridiculous. What would my people say?”</p>
			<p>“Damn your people,” thought Waldron. But he did not tell her that. Instead, he parried.</p>
			<p>“But, when it is all over, they will have nothing to say. Meanwhile you have yourself to consider⁠—yourself and Grace. I said she would do nothing, nor will she, to you at least, except perhaps to cut you. That would be awkward.”</p>
			<p>At the thrust, Louie, who had been standing, sat down, crossed her legs, tormented the tip of her delicate nose. It would be awkward, very. Perhaps the other way were best. For a moment she considered it, then, with youth’s mobility, agreed.</p>
			<p>“Very good; though, if between us we muff it, why then⁠—”</p>
			<p>Waldron caught her up. “We must not muff it. Fortunately, my part is the hardest, you have but to follow the lead. Before dinner I will send you a box of roses. If, in the box, there is a card, then go ahead, tell her at once.”</p>
			<p>At the program and the possibilities it evoked, Louie laughed.</p>
			<p>“I say, Chris, not roses, lilies-of-the valley. They are more appropriate, more in the rôle, more jeune fille.”</p>
			<p>But Waldron, sure now at least of her, was going. Five minutes later, in a Fifth Avenue club, he was talking at the hall porter.</p>
			<p>“Have the operator telephone at once to Florley’s for a box of lilies-of-the-valley. Where is Mr. Brevort?”</p>
			<p>“Yes, sir. Mr. Brevort is in there, sir.”</p>
			<p>Squarely in a chair, Brevort sat, as, at this hour, he always sat, looking out on the avenue. He was getting on, moreover; that chair perhaps had made him stout, though less so than a man who was then talking very vigorously to him about nothing whatever.</p>
			<p>Waldron approached, joined them. Presently the other man, sufficiently unburdened, got up.</p>
			<p>Waldron turned. “Nick, you were at the Amsterdams to-day.”</p>
			<p>Brevort turned also. “What of it?”</p>
			<p>“You are a friend of Grace, aren’t you?”</p>
			<p>Brevort turned again. It was his answer. Always he had spread openly before her the mantle of his devotion. There had been a time when she might have been his. But the estate of his father had come to him blanketed in mortgages. Instead of being rich, he had found himself relatively poor. Of that he had said nothing. But talking was not his forte, loyalty was.</p>
			<p>“Grace needs your help,” Waldron resumed.</p>
			<p>“Then it’s hers,” he said simply. But now a servant approached and addressed Waldron.</p>
			<p>“The flowers are at the door, sir.”</p>
			<p>“Bring them here.”</p>
			<p>Adjacently other members were seated. They were not the kind that listen, but they might overhear. After the flowers had been brought, Waldron lowered his voice. What he had to say, he said quickly.</p>
			<p>When he finished, Brevort turned on him. “What a damned blackguard you are.”</p>
			<p>Waldron smiled, waved it away, let it pass. “The point is, will you?”</p>
			<p>Meditatively Brevort drummed with his fingers. “It is a large order,” he said at last.</p>
			<p>Again he drummed. “But not a life sentence, eh?”</p>
			<p>Sure of him then, Waldron laughed. “And not hard labor either. My dear Nick, a month, less perhaps. Six weeks, at most. By the way, have you one of your cards, with you?”</p>
			<p>Brevort fumbled and produced one. It never occurred to him to ask for what it was to be used. It did not occur to Waldron to tell him.</p>
			<p>Waldron opened the box, put the card in it, retied the ribbons, scrawled the name and address, rang for a servant and dispatched it.</p>
			<p>Brevort stood up. “I must dress.”</p>
			<p>Waldron also got up. “I too. You won’t have something first?”</p>
			<p>Brevort, without replying, stalked on. Waldron followed, left him at the door, entered a taxi and in it sailed home.</p>
			<p>Grace meanwhile, regally gowned, roped with pearls, sat alone in her room, maturing her plans. Two hours, that were two eternities, had passed since this thing had battened on her. She was bruised, wounded almost to the death, almost but not quite. She had a rôle to perform and perform it she meant to, without a word, a reproach, a single recrimination.</p>
			<p>At dinner presently, afterward at the opera, she would appear as always she had appeared, the portrait on foot of a woman without a care. On the morrow Louie’s visit terminated, and she would see her off, smile at her, kiss her good-by. The day after she, too, would go, but to Newport, where she could claim residence and where, without uncivil proceedings, they set you free.</p>
			<p>Then Chris must marry the girl. Beyond that she could not see.</p>
			<p>On a table beside her a clock struck silverly. She looked at it. It was time to go down. Leisurely, with every evidence of at least outward calm, down she went, entered the drawing-room, approached the fire and absently before it held a hand.</p>
			<p>But someone else was entering, she turned. Slim, but less naked than the night before, in virginal white, a spray of lilies at the girdle, demure but incandescent, Louie appeared, and Grace smiled at her</p>
			<p>For a second, but for a second only, the smile nearly bowled the girl over. At once she was up and at it.</p>
			<p>“Grace,” she murmured in that sol bémol of hers, “Whatever became of you this afternoon? I hurried back here, found Chris, and he was so delighted that he kissed me.”</p>
			<p>At the barefacedness of it, Grace flushed.</p>
			<p>“What are you talking about?”</p>
			<p>“Why, I’m engaged. Didn’t you know? Didn’t Chris tell you?”</p>
			<p>But now in the doorway a footman was mumbling, and Brevort marched in.</p>
			<p>With the bubbling laugh of a young faun, Louie, who was nearest, gave him her hand. Before he could address her, before even he could address his hostess, Waldron, entering at his heels, touched him on the back.</p>
			<p>“I say, Nick, I do congratulate you. When I heard it I gave Louie a jolly good hug. You don’t mind, do you?”</p>
			<p>“Did she?” Brevort rather cavalierly inquired, for he was looking at Grace who was looking at him. And what a look! Could bewilderment, uncertainty, then relief, then joy, the abrupt conviction that jealousy had blinded her, that it had all been a nightmare in daylight; could you fancy these things simultaneously expressed in one look; that is what hers expressed.</p>
			<p>In the sudden emotion, one hand went to her throat, her lip trembled but she smiled. The other hand she stretched to him.</p>
			<p>At once, the wonder of it about her, she asked: “Is it true, Nick?”</p>
			<p>At which Brevort, bending deeply over that hand that she might not see he lied, and lied for her, gritted his teeth as he answered:</p>
			<p>“When have you known me false?”</p>
			<p>Beyond, in silent announcement of dinner, the butler appeared.</p>
			<p>“Then come,” she cried, “and we will drink your health.” Gayly she turned to Waldron. “Chris, you take Louie.” In speaking she shook her finger. “But mind! Don’t kiss her again. Once is enough.”</p>
			<p>Louie bubbled afresh, and Waldron smiled at her. They knew then that they had not muffed it.</p>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
