<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>The Grand Duke’s Rubies</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<article id="the-grand-dukes-rubies" epub:type="se:short-story">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Grand Duke’s Rubies</h2>
			<p>There is in New York a club called the Balmoral, which has two peculiarities⁠—no one ever goes there much before midnight, and it is the only place in town where you can get anything fit to eat at four o’clock in the morning. The members are politicians of the higher grade, men about town, and a sprinkle of nondescripts. In the unhallowed inspiration of a moment, Alphabet Jones, the novelist⁠—in polite society <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">A. B.</abbr> Fenwick Chisholm-Jones⁠—baptized it the Smallpox, a name which has stuck tenaciously, the before-mentioned members being usually pitted⁠—against each other. Of the many rooms of the club, one, it should be explained, is the most enticing. It is situated on an upper floor, and the siren that presides therein is a long table dressed in green. Her name is Baccarat.</p>
			<p>One night last February, Alphabet Jones rattled up to the door in a vagabond hansom. He was thirsty, impecunious, and a trifle tired. He had been to a cotillon, where he had partaken of champagne, and he wanted to get the taste of it out of his throat. He needed five hundred dollars, and in his card-case there were only two hundred and fifty. The bar of the Athenaeum Club he knew at that hour was closed, possible moneylenders were in bed, and it was with the idea of killing the two birds of the legend that he sought the Balmoral.</p>
			<p>He encountered there no difficulty in slaking his thirst; and when, in one draught, which brought to his tonsils a suggestion of art, science, and Wagner combined, he swallowed a brandy-and-soda, he felt better, and looked about to see who might be present. The room which he had entered was on what is called the parlor floor. It was long, high-ceiled, comfortably furnished, and somewhat dim. At the furthermost end three men were seated, two of whom he recognized, the one as Sumpter Leigh, the other as Colonel Barker; but the third he did not remember to have seen before. Some Westerner, he thought; for Jones prided himself on knowing everyone worth knowing in New York, and, it may be added, in several other cities as well.</p>
			<p>He took out his card-case and thumbed the roll of bills reflectively. If he went upstairs, he told himself, he might double the amount in two minutes. But then, again, he might lose it. Yet, if he did, might not five hundred be as easily borrowed as two hundred and fifty?</p>
			<p>“It’s brutal to be so hard up,” he mused. “Literature doesn’t pay. I might better set up as publisher, open a drug-shop, turn grocer, do anything, in fact, which is brainless and remunerative, than attempt to earn a living by the sweat of my pen. There’s that <i epub:type="se:name.publication.magazine">Interstate Magazine</i>: the editor sent me a note by a messenger this morning, asking for a story, adding that the messenger would wait <em>while I wrote it</em>. Evidently he thinks me three parts stenographer and the rest kaleidoscope. What is a good synonym for an editor, anyway?”</p>
			<p>And as Jones asked himself this question he glared fiercely in a mirror that extended from cornice to floor. Then, mollified, possibly, by his own appearance, for he was a handsome man, tall, fair, and clear of skin, he threw himself on a sofa, and fell to thinking about the incidents of the ball.</p>
			<p>For some time past he had been as discreetly attentive as circumstances permitted to a young girl, the only child of a potent financier, and on that particular evening he had sat out the cotillon with her at an assembly. She was very pretty and, unusual as it may seem in a débutante, rather coy. But when, a half-hour before, he had wished her sweet dreams in that seductive manner for which he was famous, she had allowed the tips of her fingers to rest in his own just one fleeting second longer than was necessary, and, what is more to the point, had looked into his eyes something which now, under the influence of the brandy-and-soda, seemed almost a promise. “Dear little soul!” he muttered; “if she marries me I will refuse her nothing. It will be the devil’s own job, though, to get her any sort of an engagement ring. Tiffany, perhaps, might give me one on credit, but it will have to be something very handsome, something new; not that tiresome solitaire. Those stones I saw the other day⁠—H’m! I wonder what that fellow is staring at me for?”</p>
			<p>He lounged forward to where the men were seated, and, being asked to draw a chair, graciously accepted the invitation and another brandy-and-soda as well.</p>
			<p>“It was this way,” the stranger exclaimed, excitedly, when he and Jones had been introduced. “I was telling these gentlemen when you came in that you looked like the Grand Duke Sergius⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Thank you,” the novelist answered, affably. “The same to you.”</p>
			<p>“I never saw him though,” the stranger continued.</p>
			<p>“No more have I.”</p>
			<p>“Only his picture.”</p>
			<p>“Your remark, then, was doubly flattering.”</p>
			<p>“But the picture to which I allude was that of a chimerical grand duke.”</p>
			<p>“Really, sir, really you are overwhelming.”</p>
			<p>“But wait a minute, do wait a minute. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Jones, I don’t know whether you caught my name: it is Fairbanks⁠—David Fairbanks.”</p>
			<p>“Delighted! I remember it perfectly. My old friend, Nicholas Manhattan, bought a ruby of you once, and a beauty it was. I heard at the time that you made a specialty of them.”</p>
			<p>“So did the grand duke. He came here, you know, on that man-of-war.”</p>
			<p>“Yes, I know. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Wainwaring gave him a reception. It was just my luck: I was down with the measles at the time.”</p>
			<p>“Oh, you were, were you? You were down with the measles, eh? Well, I wish I had been. Gentlemen, listen to this; you must listen. I was in my office in Maiden Lane one day, when a young man came in. He wore the most magnificent fur coat I have ever seen in my life. No, that coat was something that only Russia could have produced. He handed me a card on which was engraved</p>
			<blockquote xml:lang="fr">
				<p><b>P<sup>CE</sup> Michel Zaraguine</b>,<br/>
				Aide-de-camp de <abbr epub:type="z3998:initialism">S. A. I.</abbr> le grand-duc Serge de Russie.</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>“And then, of all things in the world, he offered me a pinch of snuff, and when I refused he helped himself out of a beautiful box and flicked the grains which had fallen on his lapel with a nimbleness of finger such as it was a pleasure to behold. I ought to tell you that he spoke English with great precision, though his accent was not pleasant⁠—sort of grizzled, as it were. Well, gentlemen, he said that <em>his</em> prince, as he called him, the grand duke, wanted some rubies; they were intended for a present; and, though my visitor did not imply anything either by word or gesture, I suspected at once that they were for a lady. The grand duke at that time had been here a fortnight, and it was said⁠—However, there is no use in going into that. So I showed him a few; but, if you will believe me, he wanted enough to make a tiara. I told him that a tiara of stones of that quality would come anywhere from sixty to eighty thousand dollars. If I had said a peck of groats he could not have appeared more indifferent. ‘It is a great deal of money,’ I said. He smiled a little at that, as though he were thinking, ‘Poor devil of an American, it may seem a great deal of money to you, but to a grand duke⁠—!’ Then I brought out all I had. He looked them over with the pincers very carefully, and asked how much I valued them at. I told him a hundred and ten thousand dollars. He didn’t turn a hair.”</p>
			<p>“Was he bald?” Jones asked.</p>
			<p>“No, sir, he was not; and your jest is ill-timed. Gentlemen, I appeal to you. I insist on <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Jones’s attention⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Why, the man is crazy,” Jones mused. “What does he mean by saying that my jest is ill-timed? But why does he insist on my attention? He’s drunk⁠—that’s what he is; he’s drunk and quarrelsome. Well, let him be. What do I care?” And Alphabet Jones looked complacently at his white waistcoat and then over at his excitable vis-à-vis. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Fairbanks was a little man of the Cruikshank pattern, very red and rotund, and as he talked he gesticulated.</p>
			<p>“So I said to him, ‘There’s been a corner in rubies, but it broke, and that is the reason why I can give them at that price.’ He didn’t know what a corner was, and when I explained he took a notebook out of his pocket and wrote something in it. ‘I am making a collection of Americanisms for the Czarina,’ he said. ‘By the way,’ he added, ‘what is a Sam Ward!’ I told him. He laughed, and put it down⁠—”</p>
			<p>“His throat?”</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Fairbanks glanced at Jones with unconcealed irritation: “<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Hammond, sir, says that punning is a form of paresis.”</p>
			<p>“Be careful about that epsilon; it’s short.”</p>
			<p>“Well, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Jones, you ought to know how to pronounce the word better than I, for you have the disease and I haven’t. Gentlemen, I insist⁠—”</p>
			<p>But Jones had begun to muse again. “That fat little brute is a type,” he told himself. “I must work him in somewhere. I wonder, though, if I had not better leave him and go up to the baccarat. It might be more remunerative. It would be amusing,” and Alphabet smiled at the fantasy of his own thought, “it would be amusing indeed if he tried to prevent me.” He put his hand over his eyes and let <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Fairbanks ramble on.</p>
			<p>“You see,” he heard him say, in connection with something that had gone before, “a man in my business has to be careful. Now, there are rubies and rubies. I only handle the Oriental stones, which are a variety of the hyaline corindus. They are found in Ceylon, in Tibet, and in Burma among the crumblings of primordial rock. But I have seen beauties that were picked from waste lands in China from which the granite had presumably disappeared. They are the most brilliant and largest of all. There is another kind, which looks like a burned topaz: it is found in Brazil and Massachusetts. Then there is the Bohemian ruby, which is nothing but quartz reddened by the action of manganese; and there are also imitations so well made that only an expert can tell them from the real. I keep a few of the latter on hand so as to be able to gauge a customer. Well, gentlemen, the Russian picked up two of them, which I placed before him, and put them to one side. He knew the false article at a glance. Your friend, Jones, that simpleton Nicholas Manhattan, would have taken one of the imitation if I had not prevented him, but this fellow was so clever about it that he won my immediate respect.”</p>
			<p>“Jones, indeed!” Alphabet muttered. “Why, the brute is as familiar as a haberdasher’s advertisement!” He looked at him again: his face was like a brandied peach that had fallen into the fire, and his head was set on his shoulders like an obus on a cannon. “Bah!” he continued, “what is the use in being irritated at a beggar who is as ugly as a high hat at the seashore?”⁠—“When you do me the honor to address me, sir,” he said, aloud, “I shall be obliged if you will call me <em><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr></em> Jones.”</p>
			<p>“Tut, tut!” the little man answered, and then, without further attention to Alphabet, he continued his tiresome tale:</p>
			<p>“When the Russian had examined the rubies very carefully a second time, he said, half to me and half to himself, ‘I think they will do.’ Then, looking up at me, he added, ‘<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Fairbanks, you do not make a hundred-thousand-dollar sale every day, do you?’ ‘No, your Excellency,’ I answered⁠—you see, I made a dash at Excellency; Prince seemed sort of abrupt, don’t you think?’⁠—‘No, your Excellency, it does not happen over once a week.’ He smiled at that, and well he might, for the biggest sale I had previously made amounted to but nine thousand dollars. ‘<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Fairbanks,’ he continued, ‘the grand duke is rich, as you well know. I am not. You will understand me the better when I tell you that at present, unless cholera has visited Russia since I left (and I hope it has), there are exactly twenty-nine people in Petersburg who bear the same name and title as myself. Now, if the grand duke purchases these rubies, what will my commission be?’ ‘That is squarely put, your Excellency,’ I answered⁠—‘squarely put. Will his Imperial Highness pay cash for the rubies?’ ”</p>
			<p>“You might have asked him if his Imperial Highness would pay <i xml:lang="fr">rubis sur l’ongle</i>. But I remember you don’t approve of wit.”</p>
			<p>This interjection came, of course, from Jones. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Fairbanks, however, let it pass unnoticed. It may be that he did not understand.</p>
			<p>“ ‘Necessarily,’ he replied. ‘A recent ukase of the Czar’s inhibits any member of the Imperial family from purchasing so much as a brass samovar on credit.’ I bowed. ‘A very proper and wise ukase that is, your Excellency. Under such circumstances I think I see my way to giving you one percent.’ He laughed at that, as though I had made a remark of great brilliance.”</p>
			<p>“I like that,” Jones exclaimed, in spite of himself. “Why, you wouldn’t be brilliant in a calcium light.”</p>
			<p>But this remark, like the former, passed unheeded. For the first time since his memory ran not to the contrary it seemed to Jones that he was being ignored; and to ignore Jones! <i xml:lang="fr">Allons donc!</i></p>
			<p>“ ‘Look at me,’ said the Russian,” <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Fairbanks continued. “ ‘The grand duke will not buy these rubies except on my recommendation, and I value that recommendation at not a kopeck less than ten thousand dollars. It is to take or to leave. Choose, sir, choose.’ And with that he picked up his hat. ‘I cannot, your Excellency, I cannot.’ He turned away and made for the door. ‘Excellency,’ I cried, ‘I will give you five.’ He wheeled about. ‘If,’ he said, ‘you offer one percent when you can give five and three-fifths, you are just as well able to give nine and two-thirds.”</p>
			<p>“He was a lightning calculator, wasn’t he?”</p>
			<p>“ ‘On my conscience,’ I answered, ‘I cannot give more than seven.’ ‘Ah!’ he replied, ‘I do not know how to haggle.’ He reflected a moment. ‘It is well,’ he said; ‘I accept.’ Gentlemen, when he said that, I felt that I had done a good day’s work. Apart from the commission I had a clean profit of eighteen thousand dollars; and eighteen thousand dollars is a tidy sum⁠—not to you, gentlemen, nor to Jones there, but to me.”</p>
			<p>“Ged, the little cad is getting sarcastic.” And Jones laughed quietly to himself and finished his brandy-and-soda.</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Fairbanks waved his arms and pounded the table so excitedly that he roused a waiter from a nap.</p>
			<p>“Yes, bring the same,” he cried. “Now, gentlemen, I am coming to the point. I insist on your attention. <em><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr></em> Jones, I will thank <em>you</em> not to interrupt⁠—unless it happens that you care to aid me with the details. Yes, sir, I said details⁠—<i epub:type="z3998:grapheme">d</i>-<i epub:type="z3998:grapheme">e</i>-<i epub:type="z3998:grapheme">t</i>-<i epub:type="z3998:grapheme">a</i>-<i epub:type="z3998:grapheme">i</i>-<i epub:type="z3998:grapheme">l</i>-<i epub:type="z3998:grapheme">s</i>. Now wait a minute, will you? Gentlemen, I appeal to you. He shall wait. Beat it into his head⁠—can’t you?⁠—that I am coming to the point, and very interesting, I promise, you will all find it to be.”</p>
			<p>“<i xml:lang="fr">Tu te vantes, mon bonhomme, tu te vantes.</i> Here’s to you.”</p>
			<p>“Here’s to you. Well, gentlemen, it was then one o’clock. I always lunch at that hour, and I asked the Russian if he would let me offer him a bite. ‘I would very much like to try a Sam Ward,’ he said, ‘and I might take some tea and a bit of toast.’ ‘That,’ I replied, ‘would be tasty with a little caviar.’ I wanted to show him that, though a dealer in precious stones, I was first and foremost a man of the world.”</p>
			<p>Alphabet Jones rolled over in spasms of delight. “Divinities of Pindar,” he shouted, “listen to that!”</p>
			<p>“Gentlemen, gag that man⁠—gag him: I will be listened to. There, now, <em>will</em> you be quiet? You make me lose the thread. Where was I? Oh, yes: the Russian seemed to reflect a moment, and looked at his watch. ‘I think,’ he said, ‘it would be better to go straight to the Brevoort House.’ (The grand duke, I knew, was stopping there.) ‘My prince is to go out this afternoon between two and three, and if you do not see him today it may be hard to manage it tomorrow.’ ‘I am at your orders, Excellency,’ I answered; ‘business before pleasure.’ ‘Good, then,’ he returned; ‘we will take a droschky, or, better even, your railway that is in the air.’ ‘The elevated, you mean,’ I said⁠—‘the elevated. Yes, of course.’ Inwardly I was well pleased that the suggestion should have come from him, for I am not overfond of riding in a cab with a hundred and ten thousand dollars’ worth of rubies in my pocket and a stranger for sole companion. For he was a stranger⁠—wasn’t he?⁠—and, by his own account, not well-to-do. But that Russian had a knack of disarming suspicion. And, besides, how was it possible for me to have any doubts about a man who fought as he had over the percentage? It would have been nonsensical. So I did the rubies up in cotton, put them in a box, and off we went. On the way to the elevated you ought to have seen how the people stared at that coat. All the time he kept up a delightful flow of conversation. He told me any number of interesting things about his country, and when I asked if he had read ‘<i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">The Journey Due North</i>’ he told me that he had, and that when Sala was in Russia his father had entertained him at his country-house a few versts from Moscow. Think of that, now! Altogether, he made himself most agreeable. I asked him on the way if he thought that inasmuch as I was to have the honor of seeing the grand duke it would not be more in accordance with etiquette for me to put on a dress-coat. But he laughed, and said, no, the grand duke would never notice. Then he told me some very curious anecdotes about him⁠—how, for instance, he fainted dead away at the sight of an apple, and yet kept a balloon and an aeronaut, just as Jones there might keep a dogcart and a groom. He told me, among other things, that at Petersburg the grand duke had a pet tiger, which would accept food from no one but him, and on my asking how the tiger got along when the grand duke was away, he said that the grand duke had him stuffed. Oh, he was very entertaining, and spoke English better than you would have imagined. We walked over from Eighth Street to the hotel, and when we reached it he took me straight upstairs to his own room. ‘If you will sit a minute,’ he said, ‘I will see if his Highness can receive you.’ He went away, and I looked about me. The room into which I had been shown was a sitting-room with a bedroom opening from it. There was a writing-table standing against the door which led to the adjoining apartment, and while I was waiting I just glanced at the things with which the table was littered. There were a number of foreign newspapers, but in what language they were printed I could not make out; there was a package of official-looking documents tied with a string, a great blue envelope addressed in French to the Prince Michel Zaroguine and postmarked Washington, and back of all, in a frame, the photograph of a man.”</p>
			<p>For some minutes previous <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Fairbanks had been speaking quite composedly, though Jones, with the observant eye of his class, had noticed that near the ears his cheeks and his forehead as well were wet with perspiration. But now abruptly he grew unaccountably excited, and his speech displayed a feverish animation. His face had lost its scarlet; it had grown very white; and it seemed to the novelist that in some manner which he could not explain to himself it had taken on a not unfamiliar aspect. “H’m!” he reflected, “it’s odd. I know I never saw the man before, and I am sure that I do not particularly care ever to see him again. Leigh ought to have more sense than to bring an orangutan even into such a club as the Smallpox. Besides, what does he mean by boring everyone to death? By gad, I believe he has put Leigh to sleep. It’s worse than a play.” But still he made no effort to move. In spite of himself, he felt vaguely fascinated, and, though he declined to admit it, a trifle ill at ease.</p>
			<p>“I took up the photograph,” <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Fairbanks continued, “and while I was examining it, the Russian came back. In his hand he held a checkbook. ‘That’s the grand duke himself,’ he said. ‘He will stop in here presently on his way out. There will be two or three members of the suite with him; and, that you may recognize his Highness at once, take a good look at the picture. When he comes in you must do this way: button your coat, please; thanks: now stand anywhere you like and make a low bow. Let me see you make one. Bravo! that is splendid. Only⁠—how shall I say?⁠—do not let your arms hang in that fashion. The grand duke might think you had dropped something and were stooping to pick it up. However, that is a minor matter. It may be that he won’t see you at all. But of all things remember this: under no circumstances must you speak to him unless he first addresses you, and then you must merely answer his question. In other words, do not, I pray you, try to engage him in conversation.’ ‘Does he speak English?’ I asked. I couldn’t help it. I was getting nervous. ‘Now let us have the rubies,’ he said. I took the box out of my breast-pocket and handed it to him. He opened it, drew the cotton aside, and ran his fingers lovingly over the gems. ‘Yes,’ he said, ‘they will do.’ Then he closed the box again, and put it in the drawer of the table at which he had taken a seat. ‘If,’ he continued, ‘his Highness is satisfied, I will draw a draft for you, and Count Béziatnikoff will sign it. The count,’ he went on to say, ‘is the keeper of the Privy Purse. The draft itself is on the London Rothschilds, but they will cash it at Belmont’s.’ I did not quite like that arrangement: it did not seem entirely businesslike. ‘Your Excellency,’ I said, ‘it is the custom here to have checks for large amounts certified before they are offered in payment.’ But I had to explain what certification meant before he understood me. ‘That is nothing,’ he said, ‘that is nothing. If his Highness is pleased, we will go to Belmont’s together, or, if you prefer, we will sit here over a Sam Ward and let one of the hotel-clerks go to the bank in our stead.’ There seemed to me nothing objectionable in that suggestion; for, after all, I could not exact of any one, however grand-ducal he might be, to go about with a hundred and ten thousand dollars in his waistcoat.”</p>
			<p>“Or in his trousers either.”</p>
			<p>“Or in his trousers either, as you very properly put it. Now, <em><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr></em> Jones⁠—<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Leigh, look at me; Colonel Barker⁠—colonel⁠—I am coming to the point. Where’s that waiter? Gentlemen, see here; watch that man there⁠—watch Jones. Don’t take your eyes off <em><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr></em> Jones, but listen, all of you, to what I say. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Leigh, you are looking at me: look at your friend, colonel, I insist. <em><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr></em> Jones, <em>you</em>, if you care to, can look at me. Now, gentlemen, now⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Have you got a camera concealed about your person?”</p>
			<p>“No, I have not, but I have something that came from one. You wait a minute, and I’ll show it to you. I’ll show it to you all. Where did I leave off?”</p>
			<p>“In his waistcoat-pocket.”</p>
			<p>“Thank you: so I did. Well, gentlemen, we sat there talking as pleasantly as you please. The Russian joked a bit, and said that he wanted a certified check from me⁠—the check for his commission, you remember⁠—and presently he got up and said he would see what was delaying his Highness. So I sat awhile, twirling my thumbs. Five minutes passed, ten minutes passed. I looked at my watch: it was almost half-past two. That draft, I told myself, won’t be cashed today. I went to the window and looked out. I went to the door: there was no one in the hall but a chambermaid. I went back to my seat, and then, moved by my own uneasiness, I opened the drawer of the table. The box was gone! I took the drawer out. It was one that extended the entire width of the table: the further end of it had been cut off. I looked down and in through the place from which I had taken it. I could see into the next room! I pulled the table to one side, and there, just where the drawer had touched the door against which it had stood, was an oblong opening cut through the woodwork of the door itself. I was downstairs in an instant. Gentlemen, the grand duke had gone to Philadelphia that very morning. No such person as Prince Zaroguine lodged in the hotel. The clerk came upstairs with me. ‘That room,’ he said, ‘is occupied by a Frenchman, and the adjoining room belongs to a man who registered from Boston. Why, that’s his picture there!’ he exclaimed, pointing to the picture of the grand duke. ‘I did not even know that they were acquainted. But they will be back; they have left their things; they haven’t even paid their bills.’ I did not wait for their return: if I had I might be waiting still. But I took the photograph, and down to Inspector Byrnes I posted. ‘That,’ said he, ‘that is the picture of one of the ’cutest rogues in the land. He has as many names as the Czar of Russia himself.’ And the original of that picture⁠—Gentlemen, here⁠—<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Leigh, here⁠—colonel, here is the picture itself. I have kept it with me ever since. The original of that picture sits before you. Hold on to him, colonel. Jones, if you move I’ll put a bullet through you. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Leigh, do you ring for the police. Hold him, colonel. Disgorge, you scoundrel, disgorge! I have got you at last!” And then, before the astonished gaze of Alphabet Jones, Colonel Barker faded in a mist, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Fairbanks lost his rotundity, his black coat changed to a blue swallowtail with brass buttons, he grew twenty years younger, and, so far from being violent, he seemed rather apologetic than otherwise.</p>
			<p>“It’s six o’clock, sir,” he said. “Will you order anything before the bar closes?”</p>
			<p>Alphabet blinked his eyes. He was lying in a cramped position on the sofa. He was uncomfortable and very hot. He pulled himself together and looked around. Save for the waiter and himself, the room was deserted.</p>
			<p>“Is there any baccarat going on upstairs?” he asked.</p>
			<p>“No, sir; the gentlemen are just going away.”</p>
			<p>“Well, well,” he mused, “that was vivid. H’m! I’ll work it up as an actual occurrence and send it on to the <i epub:type="se:name.publication.magazine">Interstate</i>: it will be good for the two hundred and fifty which I meant to make at baccarat.⁠—I say, waiter, get me a Remsen cooler, please.”</p>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
