<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>The Shudder</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<article id="the-shudder" epub:type="se:short-story">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Shudder</h2>
			<p>“I don’t know where to begin.”</p>
			<p>“Begin at the end.”</p>
			<p>We were in the library of a metropolitan club. It was in the morning, a trifle after two. Barring the caryatides of the bookshelves, we were alone. The members had gone, the servants also. There was no one about except Parr, the night watchman, who an hour before had brought me a glass of hot water. Ordinarily I would have been at home and in bed but, earlier that night, on leaving the Opera, I had entered the club where, in my letter box, I found Royal Cambridge’s card and a note from a literary agent asking if I could not give him a story with a shudder in it. Thereupon I had gone to the library, ordered the hot water, which to me is always very inspiring, and then, while devising impossible situations, I had seated myself at a table, the water before me. But the water grew cold, the club vacant, my mind as well, and I was about to tell Parr to call a cab when, abruptly, Cambridge entered.</p>
			<p>Cambridge is one of the few millionaires of my acquaintance with whom I have a thought in common. Yet then we have affiliated virtues. His nature is that of a sundial. It is only serene hours of which he takes count. For a literary person that is in the order of things. For a millionaire it is a feat. There were other ties. I had always known him, and I was best man at his wedding⁠—an event that had occurred a few months previous and during which he had seemed most reposeful. On this night he was oddly excited.</p>
			<p>“It has taken forty years to make my hair gray,” he threw at me. “One hour has made it white.”</p>
			<p>He had been standing, but he dropped on a chair, into which, like an omelette soufflée, he seemed to collapse.</p>
			<p>Suddenly he straightened. “You don’t know⁠—no one knows what horror is. I alone do.”</p>
			<p>“There, there!” I cut in. “I have a note from a man who makes a specialty of it.”</p>
			<p>“But first,” he ran on, “you must look at this.”</p>
			<p>With that, he produced a picture, a photograph of his wife.</p>
			<p>I glanced at it. “You know, Royal, I have always said that there are a hundred ways of being blonde and but one way of being brunette. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Cambridge has it.”</p>
			<p>He nodded at me. “You told me to begin at the end. I will. It is ended.”</p>
			<p>“What is?” I asked.</p>
			<p>“Do you know anything about demonology?”</p>
			<p>“Vaguely. I once wrote a tract about it⁠—but that was only to display my ignorance.”</p>
			<p>“In any event, you must be aware that it was a woman who changed Lucifer into Satan.”</p>
			<p>“I am at least aware that you are too sensible not to know that you are stupid.”</p>
			<p>“Stupid!” he cried. “Why! Why do you say that?”</p>
			<p>I indicated the picture. “To fancy for an instant that I will listen to anything against⁠—”</p>
			<p>He tossed his head. “On the contrary. I used to say that she was an angel; now I swear that she is a saint.”</p>
			<p>I lit a cigarette. “Your metaphors are a bit mixed. To become a saint after having been an angel is a step backward.”</p>
			<p>As I spoke, I looked again at the picture. It did not do her justice. No camera could. One might as well attempt to photograph a perfume. The beauty of Constance Cambridge was the least of her allurements. She exhaled everything that is best in woman⁠—sincerity, simplicity, sweetness and strength. The photograph did not display these things. What it did show was a perfect oval, delicate features, a turban of black hair and lips lifted at the corners by the upturned comma of the Athenian mouth. It was not a good likeness, but it might have been worse.</p>
			<p>In looking at it, I recalled an episode, faded now and not entirely ideal. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Cambridge, before her marriage, had lived with her father and her sister. Her father, an estray of fortune and of health, mongered in something⁠—in just what I forget; in aquamarines it may be, or in old anchors⁠—anyway in something fishy. The mongering left Constance unaffected, though apparently it had an influence, perhaps occult, on her sister, a twin, who had also found the one way to be a brunette and to whom other surroundings probably appealed, for she marched off one day and never came back.</p>
			<p>“Do you?” I heard Cambridge asking.</p>
			<p>I turned to him. “Do I what!”</p>
			<p>“Do you remember Dugald Maule?”</p>
			<p>At the question, memory raised a latch. I was back again, a schoolboy, in the fifth form at <abbr>St.</abbr> Paul’s, with Cambridge and this Maule, a garish fellow whom since then I might have thought dead had I thought of him at all.</p>
			<p>“Yes,” I answered; “and since you ask I suppose he must have a local habitation and a bad name.”</p>
			<p>Cambridge did not seem to hear. He was wandering afar, into that region known to New Yorkers as Down Town.</p>
			<p>“I had to see my brokers today,” he explained. “Their office is in Exchange Place. I told the mechanician where to go. By the way, do you believe in fate?”</p>
			<p>“I believe that never do useless events occur.”</p>
			<p>Cambridge looked down. “Through some hideous mockery the mechanician stopped at the wrong door. How wrong it was it would take Victor Hugo to describe. It was there I met Maule.”</p>
			<p>At mention of the man, Cambridge gave a sort of uneasy shake, and looking up again said: “Have you a cigarette?”</p>
			<p>On the table between us was the glass of water, the photograph and my case. The case I shoved over to him. Then, as he helped himself from it, I noticed that his hand trembled. He must have noticed it also. He looked at me and away. But in that look I saw that his eyes were dilated and bloodshot. Already I had seen that he was not in evening dress. Now, for the first time, I saw that the clothes which he wore exhibited, and rather ostentatiously I thought, a sort of studied indigence. In a man of very large means anything of that kind is eminently correct. It was his eyes that perplexed. They looked as though he had been trying, in drink, to drown some specter, yet only to discover that the specter could swim.</p>
			<p>But, at the moment, my attention was diverted. Parr had peered in on us and vanished. When I turned to Cambridge again he was ashamedly concealing his hand.</p>
			<p>“No matter,” he exclaimed. “Maule made a great fuss over me. He would have it that I come into an office which he had, for my perdition, nearby. I took it for granted that he wanted to borrow money. It is one of the misfortunes of having any that you always think that. But not at all. He wanted only to talk about himself. He had, it appeared, been in France ever since he left <abbr>St.</abbr> Paul’s, and only recently, as representative of a champagne house, had returned. He got a bottle out from somewhere which he asked me to try. Of course I refused. Then, from one thing to another, he said that, after Paris, it surprised him to find that the women here were all pretty and the men all in a hurry.”</p>
			<p>I patted a yawn. “Why should that surprise? It is merely an example of cause and effect.”</p>
			<p>“Finally, when I got up to go,” Cambridge resumed, “I asked after his wife, whom I had known⁠—she belonged to a good old family here⁠—and he told me that she was separated from him.”</p>
			<p>“The nicest people become disconnected by marriage,” I threw in, but I threw it with another yawn. Never had I known Cambridge to be so tiresome, and earnestly I wished myself in bed.</p>
			<p>“But,” Cambridge continued, “the beggar confided in me that he rather fancied himself on a way of his. It seems that on Fifth Avenue, the day before yesterday, he had joined an unknown beauty; he had seen her again yesterday and she had given him her picture and the promise of meeting him tomorrow.”</p>
			<p>Once more I patted a yawn. This unending story about nothing at all was boring me to extinction.</p>
			<p>“He showed me the picture,” Cambridge added. “I don’t speak of the delicacy of the proceeding, but of the infamy of it. There it is.”</p>
			<p>“What!”</p>
			<p>Cambridge was pointing at the photograph of his wife.</p>
			<p>I stared at him. He no longer bored⁠—he frightened. It was not anger nor yet hatred that his face expressed, but determination, indomitable, inflexible, menacing as a sword, and of which I seemed to feel the point and the chill.</p>
			<p>He glanced at the picture, and from it at me. “It was like a nightmare in broad daylight. I took it⁠—tore it rather⁠—from him and knocked him down.”</p>
			<p>“It can’t be possible!” I exclaimed. I found but that. Yet immediately I reflected that nothing earthly has ever prevented a woman from having the fantasies and caprices of her sex. On the heels of that reflection, instantly there trod another. There are social felonies that a gentlewoman never commits. The consciousness of that fortified me. I felt that I did not believe Cambridge, that I could not. This story of his was not only incredible⁠—it was preposterous.</p>
			<p>I told him as much.</p>
			<p>To my surprise he agreed with me. “You are right,” he said. “It is preposterous. So is any nightmare. But you have lived long enough in romance to have at least a bowing acquaintance with life, and, for the majority of us, what is life but a dread and a dream?”</p>
			<p>“Well,” I replied, “I am glad you can philosophize over a matter which I cannot and will not swallow. The point is, if you can philosophize, you can also forget. In any event, you have got to.”</p>
			<p>“Never,” he threw at me.</p>
			<p>“Then you must forgive.”</p>
			<p>“Never.”</p>
			<p>“Yes, for, assuming for a moment the truth of what you tell me, how shall it matter unless it does teach you to forgive? If it does not do that, then I may admonish you, as in similar circumstances a poet also admonished, nothing has happened to you at all.”</p>
			<p>At this, and at me, he nodded. “Quite so. To forgive another is easy enough. It is different with oneself.”</p>
			<p>I was about to interrupt. He checked me.</p>
			<p>“I left Maule on the floor where I had thrown him and went directly home. On the way I could not but wonder at my relapse into the primitive. Decent men don’t go stalking women. The fact that he was not decent was his misfortune no doubt, but clearly not his fault. The blame was hers. So at least I decided, and when I got to my house I went directly to her. She was in her room, lying on a sofa, dressed in silk, a scarf of silk about her neck. That detail may seem unimportant. It is momentous.</p>
			<p>“As I approached, she smiled. In her face was the tint which you may have noticed in the arbutus. I saw it then. I can see it now.</p>
			<p>“ ‘Where were you yesterday?’ I cried at her. ‘Where were you the day before? Where are you to be tomorrow?’</p>
			<p>“At the first question the smile went; at the second the flush faded; at the third she was white as white paper.</p>
			<p>“I sprang at her, caught at the scarf and garroted her with it. I did it so quickly that she had no time to scream, barely to struggle; only her eyes spoke⁠—and what volumes!”</p>
			<p>“Great heavens! You don’t mean that you killed her!”</p>
			<p>It was all I got out. But if previously he had frightened, then he appalled. He was livid. One side of his mouth was raised as is that of a dog when about to bite. I knew he was saying something. Yet what? It was a moment before I caught up.</p>
			<p>“Yes, it was on her writing table, across the room.”</p>
			<p>As he spoke, he produced a letter which he began reading aloud and which, so nearly as I can remember, ran somewhat as follows:</p>
			<blockquote>
				<p>It was so dear, Sybil, to have seen you, and much as I want to see you again, I cannot until Royal knows and permits me. To get his consent I must tell him your whole sad story. When he hears it I am almost sure of what he will do. If I do not come then, as I hope to, tomorrow, you will understand that I have not yet had the chance to tell him about my meeting you yesterday and the day before. Meanwhile at least I have your picture.</p>
				<p>Lovingly always,<br/>
				Constance.</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>Cambridge put the letter on the table, took up the photograph and turned it over.</p>
			<p>“Look at that,” he told me.</p>
			<p>On the back was written: “Constance, from Sybil.”</p>
			<p>Blankly I stared at the inscription. “It was your wife’s sister then that Maule⁠—” I could get no further.</p>
			<p>Cambridge helped me out. “And it was my wife that I killed.”</p>
			<p>Nervously I lit a cigarette. The bar, I knew, was closed. Had it not been, I would have ordered a drop of shamshoo⁠—a Chinese liquor popular among certain members for its steadying effect.</p>
			<p>But it was for myself I would have ordered it. Cambridge had obviously no need of anything of the kind. Long since his hand had ceased to tremble. His eyes, previously dilated, had dwindled strangely. They seemed small and shrewd, like those of a hippopotamus. Moreover, he was quite at his ease, revoltingly calm; he even looked at his watch, after which, much as though he were giving the time of day, he threw out:</p>
			<p>“And now I shall kill myself.”</p>
			<p>At that I exploded. “You can’t! It is not psychically possible. There is no such thing as death. Afterward you will find yourself quite as abominably alive as you are now. What is worse, instead of having but one crime to pay for, you will then have two. Besides, what is the use? There is not a particle of evidence against you. A silk scarf, employed as you employed it, leaves no trace whatever. What you did will be attributed to natural causes. Moreover, it is all so screamingly vulgar. If it is remorse that is inciting you, live and repent. If you don’t, by George, I tell you what, I’ll cut you dead!”</p>
			<p>“Who is George?” he indifferently inquired.</p>
			<p>With a whoop, I was at him. But his arm shot out. He was pointing at something across the room. I turned to look. Save the books and the lights, there was nothing. I turned again. In the momentary interim he had emptied a little bottle into the glass of water, and before I could prevent him, had tossed it off. Immediately, in just the same manner that he had previously collapsed, he sank like an omelette soufflée.</p>
			<p>“Parr!” I shouted. “Parr!”</p>
			<p>But it was all a bit too much. My head swam; the lights went out, or I did. When I came to, Parr was standing before me.</p>
			<p>“Yes, sir.”</p>
			<p>I blinked at him, at an empty chair, at the floor, at the table, about the room, then at Parr again.</p>
			<p>“Where⁠—how⁠—what became of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Cambridge?”</p>
			<p>“<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Cambridge? I haven’t seen <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Cambridge⁠—not for a week. No, sir.”</p>
			<p>“Curious,” I muttered after a moment. “Yet even in dream I ought to have known that millionaires don’t kill their wives. They perhaps find it simpler to detest them.</p>
			<p>“Parr,” I added, “I seem to have been asleep. Now I will write for a while. Just see, please, if you can get me some more hot water.”</p>
			<p>Then presently, when the water was brought, I drank it and set to work on “The Shudder.”</p>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
